# Special Rules


## Brutal. 

After a formation with a unit(s) that are _Brutal_ win an assault, but before hack downs are calculated, it gains an additional hit for the purposes of calculating hack downs. This bonus does not contribute to determining the winner of an assault. The unit is simply more effective at cutting/gunning down fleeing troops.

## Allies

 Armies may ally with a wide range of factions in the Heresy supplement, while some are easily incorporated into your force others have a disruptive effect on your overall strategy. Any formations from a “Disruptive” ally reduce the army’s strategy rating by one (-1). Additionally, Supreme Commander rerolls may not be used on “Disruptive” ally formations. Allied force selections must comply with any restrictions within their own army lists. When including formations from an ally army list, the restrictions for Space Craft and Supreme Commanders are applied across the entire force. Only one Supreme Commander can be selected and they must come from the primary army list. For example, an allies line detachment must be purchased before you can purchase an allies support detachment.

## Armorbane

 Armorbane weaponry is tailored for the destruction of Armored Vehicles. Whether high-velocity sabot rounds or super hot plasma, hits generated by Armorbane weapons reduce the target's saving throw by one (-1). This modifier only applies to the hits generated using the Anti-Tank (AT), Close Combat (CC) or Firefight (FF) to hit value or the Armorbane weapon and that is allocated against Light Vehicles (LV), Armoured Vehicles (AV) or War Engines (WE). This effect is ignored when used against Infantry (INF).

## Armoured Spearhead

 An army with the special rule _Armoured Spearhead_, may elect to garrison one formation (AV units only) per full 2000 points regardless of the normal restrictions for unit/formation types able to garrison. These formations may be placed on overwatch but still count towards the maximum number of garrisoned units that may overwatch (normally two).

## Berserk

 Some units are taken with a blood rage before or during a battle, this fury makes them nearly uncontrollable, thirsting for wanton death and destruction. A unit with the _Berserk_ characteristic may double it's movement distance when conducting an _Engage_ order.

## Chain of Command

 A force with the _Chain of Command_ special rule may include one _Lieutenant Commander_ character upgrade in a formation per full 1000 points. The _Lieutenant Commander_ does not cost any points and may only be placed in formations that can take the _Praetor_ upgrade. These free upgrades count towards a formations upgrade limit and cannot be placed in a formation with another _Praetor_ upgrade. If you have more _Lieutenant Commander_ upgrades available than valid formations then any excess upgrades are lost.

The negative effect of such a rigid command structure is that the loss of any unit with a CH upgrade in a formation will incur a blast marker on all friendly formations within 15cm of that formation.

## Demi-God

 A Demi-God unit has three wounds similar to a WE, however, a Demi-God wound capacity has a number of differences to that of a WE. A Demi-God unit must maintain a 5cm unit coherency with its formation unless it possesses the Scout special rule. A Demi-God unit can be allocated hits up to its starting wound capacity. A Demi-God unit requires two blast markers to be considered suppressed or broken. A Demi-God that loses a damage point does not incur a blast marker, however, when a Demi-God’s wounds are reduced to zero, the Demi-God unit is destroyed and all friendly formation within 30cm receive two blast markers. A Demi-God unit does not suffer critical hits when it loses a wound and cannot barge other units like a WE. A Demi-God does not roll a number of hit dice equal to its wounds like a WE and cannot elect to use its FF or CC value like a WE. A Demi-God unit counts as the same unit type as their retinue for transport capacity purposes.

## Exploratory Augury Web

 Friendly units entering play via the _Teleport_ special rule within 15cm of a friendly unit with the _Exploratory Augury Web_ do not roll for blast markers.

## Feedback

 If a unit firing a weapon with the Feedback special rule fails to cause damage when hitting an enemy unit, roll a D6 for each successful armour save the enemy unit made. The firing unit takes a blast marker for each 1 rolled.

## Ferocity

 Some units are eager to engage an enemy in close quarters. A unit with the special rule, Ferocity, may add a single 5cm range increase to their countercharge move during an assault.

## Fleshbane

 Some weapons utilise ammunition that is exceptionally effective against infantry units or are specifically designed to rend flesh. Ammunition types might include radiological, biological or chemical munitions, while other equipment might entail serrated blades and poison. A hit generated from a "Fleshbane" weapon attack reduces the target's saving throw by one (-1). This modifier only applies to a hit generated by the Anti Personnel (AP), Close Combat (CC) or Firefight (FF) to hit value of a "Fleshbane" weapon and that is allocated against Infantry (INF) or (LV) units. This effect is ignored when hitting or allocated against Armored Vehicles (AV) or War Engines (WE).

## Lance

 A weapon with the _Lance_ special rule is designed to destroy heavily armoured targets. An Armoured Vehicle (AV) unit with the _Reinforced Armour_ special rule that is hit by a _Lance_ weapon is not allowed to re-roll its saving throw. This special rule does not affect Infantry (INF) or Light Vehicles (LV) units.

## Legion Astartes

 Legion Astartes are renowned for their tenacity and bravery. This is represented by the following changes to the standard rules, which apply to all Legion Astartes units.

*   It takes 2 Blast markers to suppress a Legion Astartes unit or kill a unit in a broken formation (ignore any leftover Blast markers).
*   Legion Astartes formations are only considered broken if they have 2 blast markers per unit in the formation (as opposed to the standard blast marker per unit).
*   Legion Astartes formations only count half the number of blast markers in assault resolution (rounding down – note that assault resolution will not receive +1 for having no blast markers if the formation has 1 blast marker before rounding down).
*   When a broken Legion Astartes formation rallies, it receives a number of blast markers equal to the number of units, rather than half this number. Legion Astartes with the Leader special ability remove 2 blast markers instead of 1.

## Macro-Weapon

 Some of the weapons in Epic are extremely powerful. A unit hit by a _Macro-Weapon_ is not allowed a saving throw unless they possess Reinforced Armour or an Invulnerable Save. Even then, they may not reroll the saving throw as the weapon makes a mockery of their protective systems. The Macro-Weapon (MW) effect only applies to the unit type of the corresponding "to hit" value. An Anti-Personnel with the to-hit value of AP4+, MW cannot be allocated against an Armored Vehicle (AV) and does not affect the saving throw of the AV.

## Remorseless

 A broken formation with _Remorseless_ when attempting to rally only suffers a -1 modifier to its rally roll for being broken (not -2). (eg. A formation with an initiative rating of 1+ is broken and attempting to rally in the end phase, an opposing formation is within 30cm, the formation only requires 3+ to rally, as opposed to 4+).

## Siege

 Siege weapons are designed to break fortifications into rubble. A weapon with the Siege special rule gains the Macro-Weapon special rule when attacking a 0cm speed unit. Otherwise, this special rule has no effect.

## Singularity

 At its height, the Horus Heresy, saw both sides turn to outlawed dark age technologies. _Singularity_ weapons are capable of generating a continuous discharge of energy. When rolling to hit, with a _Singularity_ weapon, any unmodified to hit roll of six (6), generates an additional attack die. Successive rolls of a natural six can generate additional dice.

## Sniper

 There are certain units that possess excellent marksmanship skills, weapons with advanced targeting equipment or skills in dueling and assassination. When determining hits from a weapon with the "Sniper" characteristic, roll to hit separately, during step three of the Shooting Procedure or during step four of the Assault Procedure. _Sniper_ attacks may be allocated against any target of the attackers choosing, as long as it is a valid target either in range and line of fire or base contact.

## The Emperor's Chosen

 The Legio Custodes are the Emperor's elite, forged in his image, they gain the following special rules:

*   It takes 2 Blast markers to suppress a Legio Custodes unit or kill a unit in a broken formation (ignoring any leftover Blast markers).
*   Legio Custodes formations are only considered broken if they have 2 blast markers per unit in the formation (as opposed to the standard one blast marker per unit).
*   Legio Custodes formations only count half the number of blast markers in assault resolution (rounding down – note that assault resolution will not receive +1 for having no Blast markers if the formation has 1 Blast marker before rounding down).
*   When a broken Legion Custodes formation rallies, it receives a number of Blast markers equal to the number of units, rather than half this number. Legio Custodes with the Leader special ability remove 2 Blast markers instead of 1.
*   Legio Custodes formations halve the number of hackdowns suffered when a formation loses an assault.

## Void Shields

 Some units are protected by void shield generators. Each void shield will stop one point of damage and then go down. Do not make armour saves for damage stopped by void shields, nor allocate blast markers. Once all of the shields have been knocked down, the unit may be damaged normally and you may make saving throws against any hits that are allocated. Hits from close combat ignore void shields but units using their firefight value must first knock down any shields before they can damage the unit. Void shields that have been knocked down can be repaired. A unit can repair one downed void shield in the end phase of each turn. In addition, if a unit regroups it can use the dice roll to either repair a void shield or remove blast markers (e.g., if you rolled a 2 you could repair 2 shields, remove 2 blast markers or repair 1 shield and remove 1 blast marker).

